Zachary Nelson
MIS 407
Section A1
Business Programming Languages
Python is a good programming language to learn because of its simplicity and because it is very picking about format.  This pickiness is good because it forces the person programing with it, to do a good job at formatting.  Proper format is good because it allows people to read the code easier and makes finding mistakes easier too.  Python can be written through a program called IDLE.  You write a program in a Python document and then you use the shell document to run the program.  A lot of businesses like to use Python as an internal (within the business) language for processing statistics.
Java is also a good programing language to learn because it is a simple language to learn.  Java can be written through a program called Eclipse.  You write the program in a class and then have a main program that uses it.  There are many reasons for doing this.  One is that you can then easily separate that part of the program and use it for another program.  Another is that when you reusing the same part of the program, you only have to have it written in once.  The nice thing about Java is that it has a lot of open source libraries because there are a lot of companies using it.  Since a lot of companies have been using it, it is becoming a language that most programmers will probably use at some point in their life.
The nice thing about learning a programming language is that once you learn how to program in one language, it is easier to learn another language.  That’s because most of the programming languages are similar and you just need to figure out the difference between the new and the old language.  A lot of the popular programing languages like Java and Python are free to downloaded to your computer.  The fact that they are free is only one reason that these languages are widely used.
Python and Java are both languages that can work on many machines.  By this I mean that they will both work on a mac and a pc.  This is helpful because not everyone will be using the same computer when they come across a particular program.  They both use a style that is similar to writing a note to a person.  By this, I mean that you use regular words to tell the computer what to do.  This makes it easier to learn how to program with these languages and to be able to read and find mistakes in the code.  Here is an example that shows how they both use common English and how these two languages are different.  In both Python and Java you use an “if” statement to determine what the program should do.  If it fails to meet the criteria then it follows the “else” command.  But if you have more then one if conditions then in Java you use an “else if” command and in Python you use an “elif” command which is combining else and if into one word.
Python is really picky about format where Java is not as picky about format.  An example of this is that Java can have the whole code written on one line.  To separate the commands you use a semicolon.  In Python you have to separate the commands by stating the next command on the next line and doing proper indentation for that command.
 
Work Cited
Java http://javarevisited.blogspot.com/2013/04/10-reasons-to-learn-java-programming.html
Python http://www.codercaste.com/2009/10/20/5-reasons-why-you-should-learn-python-programming/

